Add two bioenergy crops (switchgrass and Miscanthus) (#884)
ESCOMP/CTSM: doc/source/tech_note/Crop_Irrigation/CLM50_Tech_Note_Crop_Irrigation.rst

> 

Reviewer: Can you add a section under CLM5 updates to highlight new features after CLM5? This can be 26.1.1 and titled something like: “Available new features since the CLM5 release” and can include a bullet that highlights the addition of bioenergy crops. This will help us keep track of what was included in the CLM5 release and allow us to highlight the new work available for the next release.

.. _The crop model:

> The crop model: stable and bioenergy crops

Reviewer: Do you mean “staple” instead of “stable”? One thing to consider with this distinction is that crops like cotton, which are used in CLM5 are not necessarily staple crops. I don’t currently have a great suggestion for how to distinguish these — perhaps “cash crops”? Although would biofuels also be considered a cash crop? I'm not sure if you can think of a good distinction, but I'm happy to brainstorm if you'd like.

(:ref:`Lawrence et al. 2016 <Lawrenceetal2016>`). For more details about how
crop distributions are determined, see Chapter :numref:`rst_Transient Landcover Change`. 

CLM5 includes ten actively managed crop types
(temperate soybean, tropical soybean, temperate corn, tropical 
corn, spring wheat, cotton, rice, sugarcane, miscanthus, and switchgrass) that are chosen 
based on the availability of corresponding algorithms in AgroIBIS and as 
developed by :ref:`Badger and Dirmeyer (2015)<BadgerandDirmeyer2015>` and

> described by :ref:`Levis et al. (2016)<Levisetal2016>` and :ref:`Cheng et al. (2019)<Chengetal2019>`. 

Reviewer: Are the biofuel algorithms based on AgroIBIS also, or something different? From text below, it looks like these were derived from observations. Maybe we can change this to state “…and described by Levis et al. (2016), or from available observations as described by Cheng et al. (2019)."

> The representations of sugarcane, rice, cotton, tropical corn, tropical soy, miscanthus, and switchgrass are new in CLM5.

Reviewer: Can you adjust the text to state that miscanthus and switchgrass were added after the CLM5 release?

Sugarcane and tropical corn are both C4 plants and are therefore represented
using the temperate corn functional form. Tropical soybean uses the temperate
soybean functional form, while rice and cotton use the wheat functional form.
In tropical regions, parameter values were developed for the Amazon Basin, and planting
date window is shifted by six months relative to the Northern Hemisphere. 
Plantation areas of bioenergy crops are projected to expand throughout the 21st century as a major energy source to 

> replace fossil fuels and mitigate climate changes. Miscanthus and switchgrass are perennial bioenergy crops and 

Reviewer: Please remove the "s" at the end of "climate changes" (should be "climate change")

have quite different physiological traits and land management practices than annual crops, 

> such as longer growing seasons, higher productivity, and less demands for nutrients and water. 

Reviewer: Please change "less" to "lower"

> About 70% of their aboveground biomass (leaf & livestem) is removed at harvest for biofuels. Parameter values were developed by using 

Reviewer: Suggested rephrasing: “About 70% of biofuel aboveground biomass (leaf & livestream) is removed at harvest”

observation data collected at the University of Illinois Energy Farm 
located in Central Midwestern United States (:ref:`Cheng et al., 2019<Chengetal2019>`).

In addition, CLM’s default list of plant functional types (pfts) includes an

> irrigated and unirrigated unmanaged C3 crop (:numref:`Table Crop plant functional types`) treated as a second C3 grass.

Reviewer: In the paragraph below, please update to state that there are "twenty-one inactive crop pfts" instead of "twenty-three".

Harvest
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Variables track the flow of grain C and N to food and of all other plant pools, including live stem C and N, to litter, and to biofuel feedstock.
A fraction (determined by :math:`biofuel\_harvfrac`) of leaf/livestem C and N from bioenergy crops is removed at harvest for biofuels 
(Equations :eq:`25.9`, :eq:`25.10`, :eq:`25.12`, and :eq:`25.13`),

> with the remaining portions go to the litter pools (Equations :eq:`20.14)`, :eq:`25.11`, and :eq:`25.14`).

Reviewer: Please rephrase to "... with the remaining portions going to the litter pools..."

Putting live stem C and N into the litter and biofuel pools is in contrast to the approach for unmanaged PFTs which
puts live stem C and N into dead stem pools first. 
Leaf C and N pools are routed to the little and biofuel pools, contrast to that of unmanaged PFTs which put leaf C and N to litter pools only.
Root C and N pools are routed to the litter pools in the same manner as natural vegetation.
  

> .. math::

Reviewer: For the equations below, CF, CS, NF, and NS are not previously defined in this chapter. I’m curious if these are the same/similar variables described in the previous paragraph (N retranslocation). If so, can you update the variable name for accuracy within this chapter? If not, please provide a simple definition for what these variables are, similar to the variables above in the N retranslocation section.

     \right) * biofuel\_harvfrac 
     
.. math::
   :label: 25.11

     CF_{livestem,litter} = \left({CS_{livestem} \mathord{\left/ {\vphantom {CS_{livestem}  \Delta t}} \right. \kern-\nulldelimiterspace} \Delta t} 
     \right) * \left( 1-biofuel\_harvfrac  \right) +CF_{alloc,livestem}

with corresponding nitrogen fluxes:

.. math::
   :label: 25.12

     NF_{leaf,biofuel} = \left({NS_{leaf} \mathord{\left/ {\vphantom {NS_{leaf}  \Delta t}} \right. \kern-\nulldelimiterspace} \Delta t} 
     \right) * biofuel\_harvfrac
     
.. math::
   :label: 25.13

     NF_{livestem,biofuel} = \left({NS_{livestem} \mathord{\left/ {\vphantom {NS_{livestem}  \Delta t}} \right. \kern-\nulldelimiterspace} \Delta t} 
     \right) *  biofuel\_harvfrac
     
.. math::
   :label: 25.14

     NF_{livestem,litter} = \left({NS_{livestem} \mathord{\left/ {\vphantom {NS_{livestem}  \Delta t}} \right. \kern-\nulldelimiterspace} \Delta t} 
     \right) *  \left( 1-biofuel\_harvfrac  \right)

where :math:`biofuel\_harvfrac` is the harvested fraction of leaf/livestem for biofuel feedstocks.

.. _Table Plant functional type (PFT) parameters for harvested fraction of leaf/livestem for bioenergy crops:

> .. table:: Plant functional type (PFT) parameters for harvested fraction of leaf/livestem for bioenergy crops.

Reviewer: You include all active PFTs here, so I suggest changing the description slightly, changing the word “crops” to “production”.

 | Cotton                           |             0.00           |
 +----------------------------------+----------------------------+
 | Rice                             |             0.00           |
 +----------------------------------+----------------------------+
 | Sugarcane                        |             0.00           |
 +----------------------------------+----------------------------+
 | Tropical Corn                    |             0.00           |
 +----------------------------------+----------------------------+
 | Tropical Soybean                 |             0.00           |
 +----------------------------------+----------------------------+
 | Miscanthus                       |             0.70           |
 +----------------------------------+----------------------------+
 | Switchgrass                      |             0.70           |
 +----------------------------------+----------------------------+

Whereas food C and N was formerly transferred to the litter pool, CLM5 routes food C and N
to a grain product pool where the C and N decay to the atmosphere over one year,
similar in structure to the wood product pools. 

> The biofuel C and N is also routed to the grain product pool and decay to the atmosphere over one year.

Reviewer: The next sentence mentions seeding. Since biofuels are perennial crops, is this also used for biofuels?

with the remaining portions going to the litter pools (Equations :eq:`20.14)`, :eq:`25.11`, and :eq:`25.14`).
Putting live stem C and N into the litter and biofuel pools is in contrast to the approach for unmanaged PFTs which
puts live stem C and N into dead stem pools first. 
Leaf C and N pools are routed to the litter and biofuel pools, in contrast to that of unmanaged PFTs and non-biofuel crops, which put leaf C and N into litter pools only.
Root C and N pools are routed to the litter pools in the same manner as natural vegetation.

>   

Reviewer: Minor suggestion to reduce confusion:
```suggestion
Biofuel crop leaf C and N pools are routed to the litter and biofuel pools, in contrast to that of unmanaged PFTs and non-biofuel crops, which put leaf C and N into litter pools only.
Root C and N pools are routed to the litter pools in the same manner as natural vegetation.
  
```

.. math::

>    :label: 25.16

Reviewer: I can't seem to leave a comment where you haven't made changes, so sorry for the text mismatch here. I'm curious how fertilization rates for biofuels are selected. We have these on the land surface dataset by country and crop type. Did you add biofuels there? See the “Interactive Fertilization” section for details, and please update/adjust if necessary.

In addition to the industrial fertilizer, background manure fertilizer is specified
on the parameter file by the field 'manunitro'. For perennial bioenergy crops, 
little fertilizer (56kg/ha/yr) is applied to switchgrass, no fertilizer is applied to Miscanthus. 

> Note these rates only based on local land management practice at the University of Illinois Energy Farm 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note these rates are only based on local land management practices at the University of Illinois Energy Farm 
```
